LEARNING TO OBSERVE, EXPERIMENT AND

                          SURVEY

      Grado en Computación e Inteligencia Artificial / Bachelor in
    Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence BCSAI SEP-2025

                                  LOES-N-CSAI.1.M.A
                                    Area Mathematics

                                 Number of sessions: 30
                                  Academic year: 25-26
                                 Degree course: FIRST
                                  Number of credits: 6.0

                                       Semester: 1ş
                                     Category: BASIC
                                    Language: English

                         Professor: JOSHUA JORG GUJER

                             E-mail: jguyer@faculty.ie.edu

     Joshua Guyer holds a PhD in Social Psychology from Queen's University
     (Kingston, Canada), for which he was awarded the Canadian Psychological
     Association Certificate of Academic Excellence for best dissertation research.
     Dr. Guyer previously taught at the Royal Military College of Canada (Kingston,
     Canada), after which he completed his postdoctoral research at the
     Universidad Autonoma de Madrid under the supervision of Pablo Brińol. Dr.
     Guyer also teaches at Saint Louis University (Madrid campus), the University of
     the Fraser Valley and Kwantlen Polytechnic University (Vancouver). He has
     been an invited guest lecturer at numerous international universities and is a
     regular speaker at various conferences.
     His primary areas of interest investigate the psychological mechanisms by
     which different qualities of voice that reflect speaker confidence (e.g., speech
     rate, intonation, pitch), as well as different emotional qualities of voice (e.g.,
     fear, excitement, boredom, contentment) influence the success of persuasive
     communications. Additional research interests focus on various aspects
     involved in social influence, such as scarcity, authority, and stealing thunder.
     His research has been published in a course textbooks, specialized
     handbooks, academic encyclopedias, various media outlets, and internationally
     recognized journals, including the Journal of Experimental Social Psychology,
     Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin, the Journal of Nonverbal Behavior,
     the Journal of Sports Psychology, Social Influence, and Psicothema.

                                       Office Hours

     Office hours will be on request. Please contact at:

                                                         1
                                         Edited by Documentation

                                                22th July 2025
              Email:
              If you have a question(s) that was not answered in class, you are welcome to
              ask your question(s) via email. I can be reached at: jguyer@faculty.ie.edu .
              Although I will make every effort to respond to your question(s) as quickly and
              thoroughly as possible, please recognize that I may not be available when you
              send an email. Thus, please allow me up to 48 hours to respond before
              sending a follow-up email.
              Office Hours:
              If your question cannot be properly answered via email and/or you would prefer
              to meet in person, please make an appointment to meet either via ZOOM or on
              the university campus during my scheduled office hours. Office hours will be
              determined at the beginning of the semester and posted on Campus Online.

SUBJECT DESCRIPTION

              Learning to Observe, Experiment and Survey is an introductory-level course for
              those students with relatively little background knowledge of research
              methodology. In this course, students will learn about different types of
              research (e.g., experimental, correlational, case studies, surveys), as well as
              the various phases involved in the process of scientific inquiry. Importantly,
              students will have the opportunity to not only participate in several different
              types of experiments (via workshops), but also conduct a small field study in
              order to apply concepts learned in class. Students will also gain an
              understanding of the ethical principles of conduct that form the basis of
              psychological research using human and non-human participants. Throughout
              the course, emphasis will be given to applying each concept to real-world
              situations in order to highlight the important contributions of empirical research
              across domains, including behavioral economics, digital marketing and
              communications, and emerging technologies

LEARNING OBJECTIVES

              The goal of this course is to introduce students to quantitative and qualitative
              methodology in order to provide them with the necessary tools for conducting
              basic empirical research. This course will enhance student's ability to think
              critically and scientifically about everyday issues and problems. Specifically,
              this course is designed to achieve the following objectives:
              1. Develop the ability to think critically about research, including
              understanding how research methodology is used to answer basic scientific
              questions.
              2. Learn how to evaluate the research process using classic quality
              standards from both a qualitative and quantitative perspective (reliability,
              validity, triangulation, etc.).
              3. Accurately communicate scientific research via PowerPoint in an engaging
              manner.

TEACHING METHODOLOGY

                                                                  2
                                                         22th July 2025
This course will be lecture and activity-based in order to promote learning and application of the
material in a variety of formats. Specifically, this includes practical exercises (each session),
quizzes, labs, workshops, a group project/presentation, and in-class discussions. Students are
required to read assigned materials and/or watch brief videos prior to class.

The discussion of each topic will consist of two basic parts: The first part will focus on relevant
theory to provide students with sufficient knowledge to understand the basic concepts and their
relationships with one another. The second part will focus on the practical application of theory and
concepts to real-world issues. This process will involve a variety of activities such as in-class
discussions and debates, a group project/presentation, and several labs and workshops designed
to allow students the opportunity to apply both theory and concepts to actual data, current events,
as well as within their day-to-day lives.

Learning Activity       Weighting       Estimated time a
                                        student should
Lectures                30.0 %          dedicate to prepare for
                        10.0 %          and participate in
Discussions             30.0 %          45.0 hours
                                        15.0 hours
Exercises in class,     20.0 %          45.0 hours
Asynchronous sessions,  10.0 %
Field Work              100.0 %         30.0 hours
                                        15.0 hours
Group work                              150.0 hours

Individual studying

TOTAL

AI POLICY
Artificial Intelligence Policy:
In this course, the use of generative artificial intelligence (GenAI) is encouraged, with the goal of
developing an informed critical perspective on potential uses and generated outputs.

However, be aware of the limits of GenAI in its current state of development:
If you provide minimum effort prompts, you will get low quality results. You will need to refine your
prompts to get good outcomes. This will take work.

Don't take ChatGPT's or any GenAI's output at face value. Assume it is wrong unless you know the
answer or can cross-check it with another source. You are responsible for any errors or omissions
and can validate the outputs of GenAI for topics you understand.

AI is a tool, but one that you need to acknowledge using. Failure to do so is in violation of academic
honesty policies. Acknowledging the use of AI will not impact your grade.

Suggested format to acknowledge the use of generative AI tools:
(1) I acknowledge the use of AI systems to specify how you used generative AI. The prompts used
include: [list of prompts]. The output of these prompts was used to: [explain how you used the
outputs in your work].

(2) If you have chosen not to include any AI generated content in your assignment, the following
disclosure is recommended: No content generated by AI technologies has been used in this
assignment.

PROGRAM

                                 3
                        22th July 2025
The content listed below for each class reflects what we will attempt to cover during each class.
Depending on the pace of the class, we may cover more or less content than is listed for a given
session. Thus, the specific content per session should only be interpreted as a guide. Schedule
updates will always be provided via Blackboard after each class.
IMPORTANT: Quiz/assignment due dates may change depending on whether all content planned
for a given session is covered in class. In all cases, I will announce quiz dates in class and also
post a confirmation announcement on Blackboard.
This course is divided into seven modules. Each session is lecture & activity-based to facilitate a
more engaging environment designed to enhance understanding of the course material.
Background reading are provided to ensure that students are prepared for each session.
Each module consists of two basic parts: The first part will focus on relevant theory to provide
students with sufficient knowledge to understand the basic concepts and their relationships with
one another. The second part will focus on the practical application of theory and concepts to real-
world issues. This process will involve a variety of activities such as in-class discussions and
debates, a group project/presentation, and several labs and workshops designed to allow students
the opportunity to apply both theory and concepts to actual data, current events, as well as within
their day-to-day lives.
Labs will focus on learning how to analyze, interpret, and describe the results of different types of
research (e.g., correlational, experimental, etc.) using proper APA format.
Workshops will focus on applying the concepts already discussed via an experiential approach that
allows students the opportunity to solidify their understanding by participating in and/or conducting
their own research.

This course is comprised of the following six topics:
1) The Research Process: This module will cover basic concepts related to conducting research,
including: the goals, research question, documentation, participants, data, measurement, validity
and reliability.
2) Descriptive and Correlational Methodologies: This module will focus on identifying and
understanding similarities/differences between several basic research designs.
3) Experimental Methodologies: This module will unpack the key features of experiments, including:
manipulation, randomization, control groups, and different factorial designs.
4) Quasi Experimental and Applied Research and Measurement: This module will provide an
introduction to quasi-experimental and applied research and psychological measures.
5) Qualitative Methodologies: This module will introduce students to different types of qualitative
research, including case studies, interviews, focus groups, and surveys. Students will also design
and conduct a field study in small groups.
6) Communicating Scientific Knowledge: This module will focus on how to describe, share and
report research using proper APA format.

SESSION 1 (LIVE IN-PERSON)

Introduction to Research Methods

Topics Discussed in Class:
· Objectives, contents, schedule, evaluation system, testing, common sense
· The role of common sense, how to think about ourselves and others
Exercises:
· So you think you know? Common sense class exercise
· Small groups: Science vs. pseudoscience exercise

                                                                  4
                                                         22th July 2025
SESSION 2 (LIVE IN-PERSON)

Topics Discussed in Class:
· Cognitive biases, confirmation bias, self-fulfilling prophecy
· Belief perseverance error, overconfidence effect
Exercises:
· Small groups: How evaluations of self/others are affected by preconceptions/biases
Pre-Class Readings:
· Judgment under uncertainty: (access via Blackboard)

SESSION 3 (LIVE IN-PERSON)

Common Biases that Affect Judgment and Decision Making: Part 2
Topics Discussed in Class:
· Fundamental attribution error, actor-observer effect, self-serving bias
Exercises:
· Small groups: Attributions of success/failure for self vs. others
Pre-Class Readings:
· From the fundamental attribution error to the truly FAE (access via Blackboard)

SESSION 4 (LIVE IN-PERSON)

Common Biases that Affect Judgment and Decision Making: Part 3
Topics Discussed in Class:
· Hindsight bias, false consensus/uniqueness effect
Exercises:
· Small groups: Assumptions of hindsight bias & false-consensus/false-uniqueness
Pre-Class Readings:
· Self-esteem and self-serving bias in reactions to positive and negative events
· Cross-cultural examination of the false consensus effect (access via Blackboard)

SESSION 5 (LIVE IN-PERSON)

Evaluating Information Scientifically: Part 1
Topics Discussed in Class:
· What is science? Science vs. common sense, The scientific method
· Goals/types of research, feature of empirical research, hypotheses & theories
Exercises:
· Multiple choice quiz #1 (based on material from sessions 2 ­ 4)
· Small groups: Learning how to create manipulations, measures, and control groups
· Small groups: Creating operational definitions of different constructs*
Pre-Class Readings:
· Chapter 1. Introduction to Scientific Thinking (pg. 3 ­ 19).
· Chapter 2. Generating Testable Ideas (pg. 27 ­ 34).

SESSION 6 (LIVE IN-PERSON)

Evaluating Information Scientifically: Part 2
Topics Discussed in Class:
· Science vs. pseudoscience, types of validity, replication, type I & II error

                                                                  5
                                                         22th July 2025
Exercises:
· Individual (illustrative): Interactive illustration of Type I vs. Type II error
Pre-Class Readings:
· Chapter 1. Distinguishing Science from Pseudoscience (pg. 20 ­ 27).
· Chapter 4. Reliability and Validity of a Measurement (pg. 93 ­ 98).
· Chapter 4. Ethics in Focus: Replication as a Gauge for Fraud? (pg. 103).
· Chapter 14. Types of Error and Power (pg. 401 ­ 402).

SESSION 7 (LIVE IN-PERSON)

Research Design and Operationalization
Topics Discussed in Class:
· Features of descriptive research designs, representative samples, case studies
Exercises:
· Multiple choice quiz #2 (based on material from session 5)
· Class exercise: applied case study about deception detection
Pre-Class Readings:
· Chapter 4. Identifying Scientific Variables (pg. 83 ­ 88).
· Chapter 5. Sampling from Populations (pg. 113 ­ 129).

SESSION 8 (LIVE IN-PERSON)

Descriptive Research Designs
Topics Discussed in Class:
· Surveys, strengths/weaknesses, naturalistic observation, strengths/weaknesses
· Descriptive and correlational designs, causation, third variables, issues
Exercises:
· Small groups: creating a survey ­ what makes a good survey?
· Individual: Three procedures to improve the causal validity of your study*
Pre-Class Readings:
· Chapter 6. Choosing a Research Design (pg. 139 ­ 146).
· Chapter 13. Descriptive Statistics: Why Summarize Data? (pg. 368 ­ 378).

SESSION 9 (LIVE IN-PERSON)

Correlational Research Designs
Topics Discussed in Class:
· Correlational designs, causation, third variables, issues
· Scatterplots, directionality and third variable problems, correlation vs. causation
· Spurious correlations, procedures to improve understanding of correlations
Exercises:
· Multiple choice quiz #3 (based on material from session 6)
· Small groups: Creating a correlational study
Pre-Class Readings:
· Chapter 8. Correlational Designs (pg. 217 ­ 227).

SESSION 10 (LIVE IN-PERSON)

Introduction to Experimental Research: Part 1

                                                                  6
                                                         22th July 2025
Topics Discussed in Class:
· Features of experimental studies, manipulation, randomization, control groups
· Confounding variables, placebo effect
Exercises:
· Entire class: Identifying components of an experimental study (two exercises)
Pre-Class Readings:
· Chapter 9. Single-Case Experimental Designs (pg. 256 ­ 272).

SESSION 11 (LIVE IN-PERSON)

Introduction to Experimental Research: Part 2
Topics Discussed in Class:
· Participant/experimenter effects, single/double blind, applications, meta-analysis
Exercises:
· Multiple choice quiz #4 (based on material from sessions 7 ­ 8)
· Small groups: Creating an experiment: Identifying/manipulating/measuring IVs / DVs
Pre-Class Readings:
· Chapter 9. Single-Case Experimental Designs (pg. 256 ­ 272).

SESSION 12 (LIVE IN-PERSON)

Factorial Designs: Part 1
Topics Discussed in Class:
· Factorial designs, main effects & 2way/3way interactions, statistical tests
Exercises:
· Class exercise: Create an experiment using a factorial design
Pre-Class Readings:
· Chapter 12. Factorial Experimental Designs (pg. 335 ­ 346).
· Chapter 12. Main Effects and Interactions (pg. 342 ­ 355).

SESSION 13 (LIVE IN-PERSON)

Factorial Designs: Part 2
Topics Discussed in Class:
· What are main effects, interactions, simple main effects, floor/ceiling effects
Exercises:
· Multiple choice quiz #5 (based on material from session 9)
· Small groups: Practice identifying main effects/interactions using real data
Pre-Class Readings:
· Chapter 12. Main Effects and Interactions (pg. 342 ­ 355).

SESSION 14 (LIVE IN-PERSON)

Factorial Designs: Part 3
Topics Discussed in Class:
· Identifying main effects, interactions, control groups, and confounds in studies
Exercises:
· Small group: In class assignment on main effects & interactions (HMW 1)

SESSION 15 (LIVE IN-PERSON)

                                                                  7
                                                         22th July 2025
Workshop 1: Conducting Between-Participants Design Experiments
Exercises
· Participate in a between-participants design experiment (individual basis)
Pre-Class Readings:
· Chapter 10. Between-Subjects Experimental Designs (pg. 273 ­ 282).

SESSION 16 (LIVE IN-PERSON)

Factorial ANOVA data from Workshop 1
Topics Discussed in Class:
· Discussion of between-participants experimental data from Workshop 1
Exercises:
· Small group: In class assignment on confounds/components of experiments (HMW 2)
Pre-Class Readings:
· Chapter 10. General Instructions for Conducting a Factorial ANOVA (pg. 356 ­ 364).

SESSION 17 (LIVE IN-PERSON)

Workshop 2: Conducting Mixed Factorial Design Experiments
Exercises
· Participating in a mixed factorial design experiment (individual basis)
Pre-Class Readings:
· Chapter 10. Mixed Participants Experimental Designs (pg. 273 ­ 282).

SESSION 18 (LIVE IN-PERSON)

Mixed design data from Workshop 2
Topics Discussed in Class:
· Discussion of mixed-design experimental data from Workshop 2 / Midterm Prep
Pre-Class Readings:
· Chapter 11. Comparing Between-Subjects/Within-Subjects Designs (pg. 328 ­ 334).

SESSION 19 (LIVE IN-PERSON)

Midterm Exam - In class.

SESSION 20 (LIVE IN-PERSON)

Introduction to Quasi-Experimental Designs
Topics Discussed in Class:
·Quasi-experimental research, pre/post-test designs, interrupted time-series, issues
Exercises:
·Small groups: Design a quasi-experiment and test its effectiveness
Pre-Class Readings:
·Chapter 11. Quasi-Experimental Designs (pg. 240 ­ 250).

SESSION 21 (LIVE IN-PERSON)

Introduction to Applied Research

                                                                  8
                                                         22th July 2025
Topics Discussed in Class:
·Applied research, history, real-world examples, pre/post-tests, ethical issues
Exercises:
·Small groups: Identifying costs/benefits and ethical implications of applied research
Pre-Class Readings:
·Quasi-Experimental Designs and Applied Research (access via Blackboard)

SESSION 22 (LIVE IN-PERSON)

Psychological Measures: Types, Uses and Ethical Considerations
Topics Discussed in Class:
·Indirect vs. direct self-report, behavioral/physiological measures
·Strengths/weaknesses of different measurement tools, reliability of measures
·Ethical research, human/animal participants, research ethics boards
Exercises:
·Take-home assignment: Watch guest lecture video on psychological measures
·Do animals have rights? Read part 1 & 2 and submit feedback on discussion board
Pre-Class Readings:
·Should we trust web-based studies? (access via Blackboard)
·Chapter 3. Research Ethics (pg. 53 ­ 80).
·Ethics of CIA and military contracting by psychiatrists/psychologists (via Blackboard)
·Scientific rewards and conflicts of ethical choices in human research (via Blackboard)

SESSION 23 (LIVE IN-PERSON)

Introduction to Qualitative Designs: Part 1
Topics Discussed in Class:
·Qualitative vs. quantitative research, types of sampling, types of interviews
·Interview process, creating and conducting an interview, strengths/weaknesses
Exercises:
·Small groups: Interview development; choosing a type, population, and questions
Pre-Class Readings:
·Writing interview protocol and conducting interviews: Tips for students new to the field of
qualitative research (access via Blackboard)

SESSION 24 (LIVE IN-PERSON)

Qualitative Designs: Part 2
Topics Discussed in Class:
·Focus groups, processes and protocol, data analyses, issues
Exercises:
·Small groups: Choose a topic, identify moderator, conduct focus group (6­8 people)*
Pre-Class Readings:
·Focus groups and surveys as complementary research methods: A case example (access via
Blackboard)

SESSION 25 (LIVE IN-PERSON)

Qualitative Designs: Part 3
Topics Discussed in Class:
·Focus groups continued...

                                                                  9
                                                         22th July 2025
SESSION 26 (LIVE IN-PERSON)

Workshop 2: Observational Field Study
Exercises:
·Applied qualitative methods (Conducting field research/gathering data)
Pre-Class Readings:
·Revisiting field experimentation: Field notes for the future (access via Blackboard)

SESSION 27 (LIVE IN-PERSON)

Writing the Research Report and Analyzing an Issue
Topics Discussed in Class:
·Structured writing, formatting, title page, references, citing, plagiarism
·Group project (in class/take home assignment if necessary)
Pre-Class Readings:
·Chapter 15. Communicating Research: Preparing Manuscripts, Posters, and Talks (pg. 425 ­ 433;
447 ­ 454). APA-Style Writing, Sample Manuscript (pg. 455 ­ 503).

SESSION 28 (LIVE IN-PERSON)

Group Research Presentation: Must submit via Turnitin on presentation date

   - Discussion, Evaluation, and Feedback
SESSION 29 (LIVE IN-PERSON)

Group Research Presentation: Must submit via Turnitin on presentation date

   - Discussion, Evaluation, and Feedback
SESSION 30 (LIVE IN-PERSON)

Final Exam - In class.

EVALUATION CRITERIA

                                                                 10
                                                         22th July 2025
A variety of teaching and learning strategies will be used in this course. You will be assigned a
grade based on your active participation during in class activities and discussions, completion of 5
online experiments, discussion boards, 5 MC quizzes, a group research project, and a midterm and
final exam.
IMPORTANT: Please note that your attendance in class does not form part of your grade. Again,
your grade in this course will not be affected by your attendance in classes. Please see pages
14/15 of this syllabus for detailed information regarding IE's attendance policy, and the "IE
Attendance Policy 2025 ­ 2026" document posted on Blackboard.
Participation in Activities/Discussions, Labs/Workshops (10%)
Active participation in class activities and discussions (e.g., asking/answering questions, sharing
your ideas in small group activities) is an especially important aspect in this course because our
focus will be on understanding how the theories and concepts discussed in class can be applied in
real-world contexts. Thus, engagement in all activities and discussions is critical and will be
measured via periodic in-class activities. These activities are designed to be short, quick
assignments that will focus on bringing the psychological concepts discussed in class to life in a
variety of novel and meaningful ways.
Experiment Participation (5%)
You will be required to complete five online experiments (10 ­ 15 minutes) whose purpose is to
enhance understanding of the materials discussed in lecture. Participation in each experiment is
worth 1% of your final grade. Your responses will always be 100% anonymous. That is, you will
never need to provide any information about your identity. I will provide more details about each
experiment in class. You will have 1 week to do each experiment.
Short Quizzes (15%)
Over the course of the semester, you will write 5 in-class quizzes, each worth 3% of your final
grade. These quizzes are intended to evaluate your understanding of the material discussed in the
prior class. Each quiz will consist of 10 multiple choice questions.
Online Discussions: Original/Secondary Discussion Posts (5%)
Throughout the semester I will post questions on the Discussion Board taken from the exercises in
the lecture slides. The purpose of these questions is to stimulate discussion, debate, and reflection
upon the material covered in the lectures for that week. During the week, you should be logging into
Blackboard and checking the discussions on a daily basis.

                                                                 11
                                                        22th July 2025
I expect you to respond to each discussion activity/questions (see course schedule) with an original
thought of your own (i.e., Original Discussion Post). You should also make an additional post by
responding to the posts made by your classmates, either by elaborating on their original idea or by
asking clarifying questions (i.e., Secondary Discussion Post). Both posts must be made by Sunday
at midnight (Madrid time). Discussions will be closed on Sunday at midnight (Madrid time).

I have not set a specific number of responses you should post for each discussion. Original and
Secondary discussion posts will be evaluated based on their quality not quantity (see the Rubric
posted below). Total points for each discussion board can range between 0 ­ 2. The Discussion
Board component of your grade will be comprised of 5 separate discussions, evaluated at 1% each
(i.e., a score of 0 = 0/1%. 1 = .5/1%, 2 = 1/1%).

Midterm Exam (30%)
The midterm exam will only include material from the PowerPoint slides. The exam will include
multiple choice questions and a long-answer, theory-based question that requires you to thoroughly
explain a theory as well as provide two examples through which you apply the theory using real-
world applications. Midterm exam will be held in class during Session 19.

Group Research Presentation (10%)
In groups of 4 - 5 people, you will create a presentation (PowerPoint or Google Slides) based on
two studies taken from the same empirical research article. The format for your presentation will
closely mirror the format used by researchers who present the results of their studies as a talk at
international conferences. To help guide you through this process, I have uploaded two sample
presentations, which can be found on Blackboard. Presentations will take place in class during
session 28/29. A detailed description of the presentation requirements and grading rubric will be
provided via an announcement on Blackboard.

Final Exam (25%)
The final exam is cumulative and will only include material from the PowerPoint slides. The exam
format will include multiple choice questions and a long-answer question that requires you to
thoroughly explain the advantages/disadvantages of certain methodological techniques, plus
identify all the methodological flaws in a study. To pass the course, a minimum grade of 3.5 is
required on the final exam. If your grade on the final exam is lower than 3.5, you will fail the course,
even if your weighted average (computed using the table above) exceeds 5.0.

Late Assignments/Presentation:
Will be penalized 5% per 24-hour period, starting on the day they are due. Only in cases of
emergency or illness can changes be made to due dates of assignments or projects. ALL such
arrangements are the full responsibility of the student and must be made PRIOR to the due date.
Failure to confirm any changes to the due date with the professor prior to the due date will result in
a grade of zero.

criteria                 percentage  Learning        Comments
                                     Objectives
                                                     In class
Class Participation 10 %                             participation
                                                     5 Experiments 1%
Experiment               5%                          each
Participation            15 %                        5 Quizzes 3%
                                                     each
Quizzes                                              Discussion Boards
                                                     Midterm Exam
Discussion Boards 5 %                                Group
                                                     Presentation
Midterm Exam 30 %

Group                    10 %
Presentation

Final Exam               25 %

RE-SIT / RE-TAKE POLICY

                                             12
                                     22th July 2025
Each student has four chances to pass any given course distributed over two consecutive
academic years: ordinary call exams and extraordinary call exams (re-sits) in June/July.
Students who do not comply with the 80% attendance rule during the semester will fail both calls for
this Academic Year (ordinary and extraordinary) and have to re-take the course (i.e., re-enroll) in
the next Academic Year.
Evaluation criteria:
Students failing the course in the ordinary call (during the semester) will have to re-sit the exam in
June / July (except those not complying with the attendance rule, who will not have that opportunity
and must directly re-enroll in the course on the next Academic Year).

The extraordinary call exams in June / July (re-sits) require your physical presence at the campus
you are enrolled in (Segovia or Madrid). There is no possibility to change the date, location or
format of any exam, under any circumstances. Dates and location of the June / July re-sit exams
will be posted in advance. Please take this into consideration when planning your summer.

The June / July re-sit exam will consist of a comprehensive exam. Your final grade for the course
will depend on the performance in this exam only; continuous evaluation over the semester will not
be taken into consideration. Students will have to achieve the minimum passing grade of 5 and can
obtain a maximum grade of 8.0 (out of 10.0) ­ i.e., "notable" in the in the re-sit exam.

Retakers:
Students who failed the subject on a previous Academic Year and are now re-enrolled as re-takers
in a course will be needed to check the syllabus of the assigned professor, as well as contact the
professor individually, regarding the specific evaluation criteria for them as retakers in the course
during that semester (ordinary call of that Academic Year). The maximum grade that may be
obtained in the retake exam (3rd call) is 10.0.

After ordinary and extraordinary call exams are graded by the professor, you will have a possibility
to attend a review session for that exam and course grade. Please be available to attend the
session in order to clarify any concerns you might have regarding your exam. Your professor will
inform you about the time and place of the review session. Any grade appeals require that the
student attended the review session prior to appealing.
Students failing more than 18 ECTS (single degree) or 21 ECTS (dual degree) in the academic
year after the June-July re-sits will be asked to leave the Program. Please, make sure to prepare
yourself well for the exams in order to pass your failed subjects.
In case you decide to skip the opportunity to re-sit for an exam during the June / July extraordinary
call, you will need to enroll in that course again for the next Academic Year as a re-taker and pay
the corresponding extra cost. As you know, students have a total of four allowed calls to pass a
given subject or course, in order to remain in the program.

BEHAVIOR RULES

Please, check the University's Code of Conduct here. The Program Director may
provide further indications.

ATTENDANCE POLICY

Please, check the University's Attendance Policy here. The Program Director may
provide further indications.

                                                                 13
                                                         22th July 2025
ETHICAL POLICY
Please, check the University's Ethics Code here. The Program Director may
provide further indications.

                                                                 14
                                                         22th July 2025
